docs(pyroscope.java): add pyroscope.java agent docs (#2973)
grafana/pyroscope: docs/sources/configure-client/grafana-agent/java/_index.md

---

> title: "Profiling Java via the Grafana Agent"
> menuTitle: "Profiling Java via the Grafana Agent"
> description: "Learn about using Grafana Agent for continuous profiling Java processes for performance optimization."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Profiling Java using the Grafana Agent"
menuTitle: "Profiling Java using the Grafana Agent"
description: "Learn about using Grafana Agent for continuous profiling Java processes for performance optimization."
```

weight: 20
---

> # Profiling Java via the Grafana Agent

Reviewer: By "via", do you mean "using"? If so, it might be clearer to swap the words. What do you think? I'll go ahead and make the suggestions in the frontmatter. 
```suggestion
# Profiling Java using the Grafana Agent
```

> Grafana Agent supports Java profiling in [Flow mode](/docs/agent/latest/flow/). The configuration file is written in
> the [River](/docs/agent/latest/flow/config-language/) language and is composed of components that are used to collect,
> transform, and send data.

Reviewer: Moving a phrase to the front to help with sentence flow. 
```suggestion
Grafana Agent supports Java profiling in [Flow mode](/docs/agent/latest/flow/). Written in the
[River](/docs/agent/latest/flow/config-language/) language, the configuration file is composed of components that are used to collect,
transform, and send data.
```

> ## Configuration

Reviewer: I'm suggesting a verb for the heading since this section contains steps the user should do or verify. It's not a procedure per se (although consider making it a procedure in a future revision). 

Is this correct? Does this section just discussion components for the Agent or is there better wording? 
```suggestion
## Configure the components
```

The `pyroscope.java` component is used to continuously profile Java processes running on the local Linux OS
using [async-profiler](https://github.com/async-profiler/async-profiler).

```river
pyroscope.java "java" {
  profiling_config {
    interval = "15s"
    alloc = "512k"
    cpu = true
    lock = "10ms"
    sample_rate = 100
  }
  forward_to = [pyroscope.write.endpoint.receiver]
  targets = discovery.relabel.java.output
}
```

Using the `targets` argument, you can specify which processes and containers to profile on the machine. The `targets`
can be from `discovery.process` component. You can use `discovery.process` join argument to join process targets with
extra discoveries such as `dicovery.kubernetes`, `discovery.docker` and `discovery.dockerswarm`.

> To relabel discovered targets and set your own labels you can use the `discovery.relabel` component. For more

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the `discovery.relabel` component to relabel discovered targets and set your own labels . For more
```

information, see [Components](/docs/agent/latest/flow/concepts/components/).

The `forward_to` parameter should point to a `pyroscope.write` component to send the collected profiles to your
Pyroscope Server or [Grafana Cloud](/products/cloud/).

| Name         | Type                     | Description                                      | Default | Required |
|--------------|--------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|---------|----------|
| `targets`    | `list(map(string))`      | List of java process targets to profile.         |         | yes      |
| `forward_to` | `list(ProfilesReceiver)` | List of receivers to send collected profiles to. |         | yes      |
| `tmp_dir`    | `string`                 | Temporary directory to store async-profiler.     | `/tmp`  | no       |

The special label `__process_pid__` _must always_ be present in each target of `targets` and corresponds to the `PID` of
the process to profile.

> The special label `service_name` is required and must always be present. If it is not specified, `pyroscope.java` will
> attempt to infer it from discovery meta labels. If `service_name` is not specified and could not be inferred, then it is
> set to `unspecified`.

Reviewer: Clarifying what "it" refers to in some cases. The antecedent wasn't always clear. How does this read? 
```suggestion
The special label `service_name` is required and must always be present. If `service_name` is not specified, `pyroscope.java`
attempts to infer it from discovery meta labels. If `service_name` is not specified and could not be inferred, then it is
set to `unspecified`.
```

The following arguments are supported:

| Name          | Type       | Description                                                                                              | Default | Required |
|---------------|------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|----------|
| `interval`    | `duration` | How frequently to collect profiles from the targets.                                                     | "60s"   | no       |
| `cpu`         | `bool`     | A flag to enable cpu profiling, using `itimer` async-profiler event.                                     | true    | no       |
| `sample_rate` | `int`      | CPU profiling sample rate. It is converted from Hz to interval and passed as `-i` arg to async-profiler. | 100     | no       |
| `alloc`       | `string`   | Allocation profiling sampling configuration  It is passed as `--alloc` arg to async-profiler.            | "512k"  | no       |
| `lock`        | `string`   | Lock profiling sampling configuration. It is passed as `--lock` arg to async-profiler.                   | "10ms"  | no       |

> For more information on async-profiler configuration,
> see [profiler-options](https://github.com/async-profiler/async-profiler?tab=readme-ov-file#profiler-options)

Reviewer: Missing period. 
```suggestion
For more information on async-profiler configuration,
see [profiler-options](https://github.com/async-profiler/async-profiler?tab=readme-ov-file#profiler-options).
```

> ### Privileges

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Set privileges for the Agent
```

> You are required to run the agent as root and inside host pid namespace in order to `pyroscope.java`
> and `discover.process` components to work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must run the agent as root and inside host pid namespace for the `pyroscope.java`
and `discover.process` components to work.
```

### Send data Grafana Cloud Profiles

> When sending to Grafana Cloud Profiles, you can use the following `pyroscope.write` component configuration which makes
> uses of environment variables:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When sending to Grafana Cloud Profiles, you can use the following `pyroscope.write` component configuration which uses environment variables:
```

> ### Send data Grafana Cloud Profiles
> 
> When sending to Grafana Cloud Profiles, you can use the following `pyroscope.write` component configuration which makes
> uses of environment variables:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Send data to Grafana Cloud Profiles

When sending to Grafana Cloud Profiles, you can use the following `pyroscope.write` component configuration which uses environment variables:
```

    action = "replace"
    source_labels = ["__meta_kubernetes_namespace"]
    target_label = "namespace"
  }
  rule {
    action = "replace"
    source_labels = ["__meta_kubernetes_pod_name"]
    target_label = "pod"
  }
  rule {
    action = "replace"
    source_labels = ["__meta_kubernetes_pod_node_name"]
    target_label = "node"
  }
  rule {
    action = "replace"
    source_labels = ["__meta_kubernetes_pod_container_name"]
    target_label = "container"
  }
  // Provide arbitrary service_name label, otherwise it will be inferred from discovery labels automatically
  rule {
    action = "replace"
    regex = "(.*)@(.*)"
    replacement = "java/${1}/${2}"
    separator = "@"
    source_labels = ["__meta_kubernetes_namespace", "__meta_kubernetes_pod_container_name"]
    target_label = "service_name"
  }
  // Filter only needed services
  rule {
    action = "keep"
    regex = "(java/ns1/.*)|(java/ns2/container-.*0)"
    source_labels = ["service_name"]
  }
}

pyroscope.java "java" {
  forward_to = [pyroscope.write.example.receiver]
  targets = discovery.relabel.java.output
}

pyroscope.write "example" {
  endpoint {
    url = "http://pyroscope:4040"
  }
}
```

## References

> 
> [Examples](https://github.com/grafana/pyroscope/tree/main/examples/grafana-agent/java)
> [pyroscope.java](/docs/agent/next/flow/reference/components/pyroscope.java/)
> [discovery.process](/docs/agent/next/flow/reference/components/discovery.process/)
> [discovery.kubernetes](/docs/agent/next/flow/reference/components/discovery.kubernetes/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information: 

* [Examples](https://github.com/grafana/pyroscope/tree/main/examples/grafana-agent/java)
* [`pyroscope.java`](/docs/agent/next/flow/reference/components/pyroscope.java/)
* [`discovery.process`](/docs/agent/next/flow/reference/components/discovery.process/)
* [`discovery.kubernetes`](/docs/agent/next/flow/reference/components/discovery.kubernetes/)
```
